[Silence.]
He can find a fire before it starts to flame.
That's why they call him Smokey.
That was how we got his name.
Hi there, friends.
I'm Billy Johnson, your singing woodsman.
Glad you could come up this way again on up the trail.
So how about having a seat beside me?
Get on this log under the old pine trees.
It's mighty pretty out here in the forest, isn't it?
That's cause we've kept fires from running wild through here.
You know, we thought you might enjoy taking time out for a few moments of song and storytelling.
Of course, when I say we, I'm including those fellas just across the trail there, the sons of the pioneers.
They've been waiting for you to come up the trail, too.
Now that you're here and comfortably settled, they're going to start off this little outdoor get-together of ours.
So just relax and let's hear some mighty fine singing, huh?
Everything under the sun has a love song.
And someone or something to sing that love song to.
I've heard each one to some loved one call, but the sweetest of all was the song of the waterfall.
I hear the virgin timber call, the love song of the waterfall.
There it mingles through the trees.
A love song born up on the breeze.
Plunging over rugged rocks.
Hear the water sigh.
Come to me where you are, dear one.
Here am I.
For this is heaven's mating call.
The love song of the waterfall.
Love song of the waterfall.
Pretty, wasn't it?
And since we're talking about waterfalls, I bet everybody has some favorite spot in the forest or woods where the water runs clear and clean.
Doesn't have to be a waterfall, especially.
It can be a creek or a river.
But have you ever seen that favorite waterway of yours after a fire has done its evil work back where the water comes from?
If you have,
then the water no longer runs clear if it runs at all.
Because when fire eats away at the protective covering of the soil, it destroys the grass and brush and trees that allowed the rain and snow to soak in and be stored for slow, steady release.
Yes, when fire runs wild and does its evil work, nature's water factory is thrown all out of balance.
The soil, without its protective cover, no longer can absorb
no longer can store the water that falls upon it.
And so that water rushes off the land, carrying with it the little growth that's left along with the precious topsoil itself.
It's kind of like what happens when you run a hose on a pavement and the water carries off all the dirt and the debris.
Yes, sir, when the protective plant growth is lost, the whole system of streamflow is upset and you go from one extreme to another, either too much water
You know, I hope fire never destroys the brush and trees that surround a favorite spot of mine.
It's part of a mighty important watershed itself.
I'm talking about Old Smokey.
The mountains, that is.
Well, sir, it seems to me there's enough trouble up on Old Smokey without a forest fire running wild around there.
On top of Old Smokey.
All covered with snow I lost my true lover For courtin' too slow. For courtin' is pleasure But pardon is greed And a false-hearted lover
is worse than a thief. Now a thief will just rob you and take what you have, but a false hearted lover will lead you to the grave.
Come all you young fellas, and you listen to me.
Never place your affection on a green willow tree.
For the leaves, they will wither. The roots,
they will die. You'll all be forsaken, and you'll never know why.
[Music.]
Now, we were talking about what happens to water when fire runs wild over the land.
Well, friends, let me tell you a little story.
Now, back in November of 1933, someone was careless with fire in the mountain watershed area above the town of Montrose, California.
The brush cover was completely destroyed.
Now, just about a month later...
It was New Year's Day, in fact.
A heavy rain beat down upon the mutilated soil and brought a disastrous flood to Montrose.
Thirty lives were lost.
Property damage amounted to five million dollars.
And the folks who lived through that noticed that the flood came only from the burned watershed.
There were no floods from other watersheds in the vicinity, which hadn't burned but received the same storm.
That's just one example.
There are others, many others, around the country.
Hardly a year passes without the headlines screaming that floods have struck again, along New England's Connecticut, or the Chattahoochee in Georgia, or along the Ohio and Mississippi in the central states, or out of the gulches and arroyas in the west.
Of course, you get floods usually where the land has been abused, and careless fire is one of the worst offenders.
You know, Billy, we've been on mountain fires, fighting them, and like you say,
bad as those forest and brush fires were, it's what followed that really made you stop and think.
The smoke on some of those fires had hardly disappeared when along came a heavy rain, and whoosh, the water poured off those burned mountains just like Deuce here laying it on that bull fiddle of his in a fast hoedown.
And it wasn't only water that came off the mountains.
There were rocks and mud, tons of it.
You can imagine what a
flash flood like that can do to farmland, homes, and even folks who couldn't get out of the way fast enough.
Oh, forest fires are bad medicine, all right.
Let's sing a song, boys.
[Music.]
Have you ever roamed along by a stream that sings a song upon its weave and bend in ever weary wind and wave?
Have you ever watched a beam from the moon up on a stream reflect on every ripple as it rolls and rambles on?
Then come along with me and maybe you will see why this roving soul of mine goes.
Wandering down through the years like a book winding on in a dream.
Somehow it leads me home If I'll just follow the stream. Lifting along like a leaf On the rippling waters that gleam Wondering where it goes And so I follow the stream.
Through the shady nook, the leafy vale.
Beyond the waterfall, I'll find a trail that leads me on.
When the twilight appears, and the moon with the pale yellow beam.
Guide me along as through the night I follow the stream.
I know a fellow who always kind of follows the stream.
He wears a ranger's hat and dungarees, and I'm sure you know him too.
He's Smokey Bear, and here he comes up the trail with a special message for us.
Hello there, folks.
You know, fire is a pretty good thing when it's under control.
And so is water when it's under control.
But when fire and water get out of control and run wild, then there's the very devil to pay.
It's kind of an evil game of tag they play, with wildfire the leader and wild water following behind.
That's why it's up to everyone to be careful with fire outdoors.
When you keep fire from running wild in forests and woods and on the range, you help keep water under control and lessen the erosion and floods.
Well, I'll be here.
And there he goes on down the trail.
Thank you, Smokey.
Well, friends, I suppose it's time for you to head back down the trail, too.
Thanks a lot for joining us under the old pine tree here.
You know, it's your own state forestry department, along with the United States Forest Service, and this station you're listening to that make these little outdoors get-together possible.
Until we say hi to each other again, please keep in mind what Smokey Bear says.
Remember, only we, you and I, can prevent forest and woods fires.
Well, so long for now from Billy Johnson, your singing woodsman, and from those wonderful fellas who sing your favorite songs of the outdoors the way you like to hear them, the Sons of the Pioneers.
Smokey the Bear, Smokey the Bear, prowlin' and a-growlin' and a-sniffin' the air.
He can find a fire before he starts to flame.
That's why they call him Smokey, that was how he got his name.
Smokey the Bear, Smokey the Bear, prowlin' and a-growlin' and a-sniffin' the air.
He can find a fire before it starts to flame.
That's why they call him Smokey, that was how he got his name.
Smokey the Bear, Smokey the Bear.
Prowlin' and a-growlin' and a-sniffin' the air.
He can find a fire before it starts to flame.
That's why they call him Smokey, that was how he got his name.
Smokey the Bear, Smokey the Bear.
Prowlin' and a-growlin' and a-sniffin' the air He can find a fire before it starts to flame That's why they call him Smokey, that was how he got his name
[Music.]
[Silence.]